# Automation testing with Cypress

<br/>This automated test suite covers all the test cases mentioned in code challenge file.

# Tools, Framework, Programming Language used: 

   * Visual Studio Code IDE, Cypress, Javascript, Mocha framework, Chai assertion,Page object design
   
# Development environment : 

   * All development and execution done on Mac OS. It should work on other OS as well. 
 
# Report:

* Mochawesome report: 
  + HTML report can be found in reports folder with the name 'report.html' (path :'cypress/reports/mochareports/report.html')
* Dashboard report:
  + Dashboard report can be found in this link if your running via dashboard command "--record --key [key value]"

## Dependencies

To run the tests, please ensure you have the following installed:

* Node
* NPM

## Why use Cypress

* No other dependencies required to run tests as Cypress contains everything you need.
* Setup is minimal
* Cypress supports BDD and TDD style assertion syntax so this would already be familiar to engineers who have used other JavaScript testing libraries.
* Cypress Test Runner useful in debugging your tests. You can also directly inspect from Chrome dev tools.
* Tests can be run parallel by passing --parallel key in CI.

## Installation

* Clone the repo and Install the project dependencies

``` 
npm install
```

### Running tests

* Run the automation tests in headless mode or in GUI mode. 

* Headless mode opens a browser behind the scenes and outputs the results in the terminal.

* GUI mode opens the nice Cypress GUI and is more suited while developing automation tests.

#### Headless mode

* This starts tests and runs in headless mode with electron browser

``` 
npm run headlessRun
```

#### GUI Mode

* Opens the Cypress GUI and runs in chrome browser

``` 
npm run chromeBrowserRun
```

#### Dashboard Report 

* Note: Dashboard report can be generated by providing --record --key [key value]
